---
title: 'Thinking like a mountain: encountering nature as an antidote to Humankind’s
  Hostility towards the earth'
type: pub
encoding: UTF-8

---
<h1>Publication</h1>
<article id="csl-bib-container-5T399637" class="csl-bib-container">
  <div class="csl-bib-body"> <div class="csl-entry">Gansmo Jakobsen, T. (2019). Thinking like a mountain: encountering nature as an antidote to Humankind’s Hostility towards the earth. <i>Journal of Critical Realism</i>, <i>18</i>(1), 45–55. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/14767430.2018.1550595">https://doi.org/10.1080/14767430.2018.1550595</a></div> </div>
  <div class="csl-bib-buttons">
    <a href="#taxonomy-article-5T399637" alt="archive" class="csl-bib-button">Archive</a>
    <a href="https://app.cristin.no/results/show.jsf?id=1643278" alt="Cristin" class="csl-bib-button">Cristin</a>
    <a href="http://zotero.org/groups/5881554/items/5T399637" alt="Zotero" class="csl-bib-button">Zotero</a>
    <a href="#keywords-article-5T399637" alt="keywords" class="csl-bib-button">Keywords</a>
    <a href="#about-article-5T399637" alt="about_pub" class="csl-bib-button">About</a>
  </div>
  <div id="csl-bib-meta-container-5T399637"></div>
</article>
<div id="csl-bib-meta-5T399637" class="csl-bib-meta">
  <article id="about-article-5T399637" class="about_pub-article">
    <h1>About</h1>
    Gansmo Jakobsen explores how immersing ourselves in different cultural settings can help us rethink our views and reduce hostility towards others. This study suggests that by experiencing "difference," we can better understand ourselves and others, fostering mutual respect. Jakobsen proposes applying this idea to our relationship with nature, arguing that encountering nature's diversity can help us learn from it and reduce our tendency to exploit the environment. By seeing nature from new perspectives, we might develop a more respectful and reciprocal relationship with the earth. This approach, inspired by Bhaskar’s philosophy of metaReality, could be a valuable tool in addressing environmental issues and promoting sustainable living.
  </article>
  <article id="keywords-article-5T399637" class="keywords-article">
    <h1>Keywords</h1>
    Nature, Human Exploitation, Encountering Difference, Bhaskar's Philosophy, Reciprocity
  </article>
  <article id="abstract-article-5T399637" class="abstract-article">
    <h1>Scientific abstract</h1>
    Patric Baert suggests that ‘encountering difference’, as we might when immersing ourselves in new cultural settings, allows us to redescribe and reconceptualise ourselves, our culture and our surroundings. By so doing, individuals can learn to see themselves, their own culture and their own presuppositions from a different point of view (perspective). They can then contrast their interpretations with alternative forms of life; and this is a requirement both for learning about themselves and coming to understand others. There is evidence that such learning can reduce animosity towards others and encourage reciprocity. In this paper, I discuss the possibility that such an approach could also be useful if applied to the more-than-human world, as an antidote to nature’s exploitation by humans. I therefore argue that we need to ‘encounter difference’ with nature’s forms, which will allow us to learn from it. The meaning and implications of such ‘encountering difference’ will be developed in relation to Bhaskar’s philosophy of metaReality.
  </article>
  <article id="taxonomy-article-5T399637" class="taxonomy-article">
    <h1>Archive</h1>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}en/archive/?key=3DCRN523">University of Inland Norway</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}en/archive/?key=WYNZA47F">Faculty of Education</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}en/archive/?key=L8MA547R">Department of Pedagogy – Lillehammer</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}en/archive/?key=X2Y974UN">2018</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}en/archive/?key=YSHM3JJV">December</a></li>
    </ul>
  </article>
</div>
