---
title: "9325IIDE"
type: pub
---
<h1>Publication</h1>
<article id="csl-bib-container-9325IIDE" class="csl-bib-container">
  <div class="csl-bib-body" style="line-height: 1.35; padding-left: 1em; text-indent:-1em;">
  <div class="csl-entry">Ellingsen, W., &amp; Nilsen, B. T. (2021). Emerging geographies in Norwegian mountain areas &#x2013; Densification, place-making and centrality. <i>Norsk Geografisk Tidsskrift - Norwegian Journal of Geography</i>, <i>75</i>(2), 101&#x2013;113. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/00291951.2021.1887347">https://doi.org/10.1080/00291951.2021.1887347</a></div>
</div>
  <div class="csl-bib-buttons">
    <a href="#taxonomy-article-9325IIDE" class="csl-bib-button">Archive</a>
    <a href="https://app.cristin.no/results/show.jsf?id=1894588" alt="Cristin URL" class="csl-bib-button">Cristin</a>
    <a href="http://zotero.org/groups/5402882/items/9325IIDE" alt="Zotero URL" class="csl-bib-button">Zotero</a>
    <a href="#abstract-article-9325IIDE" class="csl-bib-button">Abstract</a>
    <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/00291951.2021.1887347" class="csl-bib-button">Unpaywall</a>
  </div>
  <div id="csl-bib-meta-container-9325IIDE"></div>
</article>
<div id="csl-bib-meta-9325IIDE" class="csl-bib-meta">
  <article id="abstract-article-9325IIDE" class="abstract-article">
    <h1>Abstract</h1>
    In the mountainous hinterland of Norwegian cities new forms of habitation are emerging through mobility associated with second-home concentrations on mountain slopes. The guiding principle of this tangible spatial development is densification. The development is caused by a number of external and internal actors, each with their own agenda, geographical scale and trajectory. The objective of the article is to examine how various approaches to place-making and centre development affect and shape three case municipalities with a significant temporary population: Ringebu, Lesja and Røyrvik. Assemblage theory is employed as an analytical perspective, as the case municipalities are subject to various relations of exteriority. Based on interviews with relevant stakeholders and document analysis, the authors present the municipalities’ different backgrounds and contexts, as well as relevant planning priorities and practices, and discuss how these lead to highly different types of place-making. The main finding is that while subject to the same national regulations and market forces, the case municipalities’ approaches to local development have differed quite substantially. The authors conclude that different constellations of centrality constitute an important element in the municipalities’ place-making strategies and that more empirical studies are needed to illustrate how local practices can reinforce spatial distinctiveness.
  </article>
  <article id="taxonomy-article-9325IIDE" class="taxonomy-article">
    <h1>Archive</h1>
    <ul>
      <li>Inland Norway University of Applied Sciences</li>
      <li>Inland School of Business and Social Sciences</li>
      <li>Eastern Norway Research Institute</li>
      <li>2021</li>
      <li>March</li>
    </ul>
  </article>
</div>
