---
title: Voice choice in Äiwoo and the symmetrical voice-to-transitivity shift
type: pub
encoding: UTF-8

---
<h1>Publication</h1>
<article id="csl-bib-container-ET4Y87P2" class="csl-bib-container">
  <div class="csl-bib-body"> <div class="csl-entry">Holmen, S. S., &#38; Næss, Å. (2025). Voice choice in Äiwoo and the symmetrical voice-to-transitivity shift. <i>Oceanic Linguistics</i>, <i>64</i>(1), 1–45. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1353/ol.2025.a960252">https://doi.org/10.1353/ol.2025.a960252</a></div> </div>
  <div class="csl-bib-buttons">
    <a href="#taxonomy-article-ET4Y87P2" alt="archive" class="csl-bib-button">Archive</a>
    <a href="https://app.cristin.no/results/show.jsf?id=2377514" alt="Cristin" class="csl-bib-button">Cristin</a>
    <a href="http://zotero.org/groups/5881554/items/ET4Y87P2" alt="Zotero" class="csl-bib-button">Zotero</a>
    <a href="#keywords-article-ET4Y87P2" alt="keywords" class="csl-bib-button">Keywords</a>
    <a href="#about-article-ET4Y87P2" alt="about_pub" class="csl-bib-button">About</a>
    <a href="https://doi.org/10.1353/ol.2025.a960252" alt="Unpaywall" class="csl-bib-button">Unpaywall</a>
    <a href="https://doi.org/10.1353/ol.2025.a960252" alt="EZproxy" class="csl-bib-button">EZproxy</a>
  </div>
  <div id="csl-bib-meta-container-ET4Y87P2"></div>
</article>
<div id="csl-bib-meta-ET4Y87P2" class="csl-bib-meta">
  <article id="about-article-ET4Y87P2" class="about_pub-article">
    <h1>About</h1>
    Holmen and Næss explore how speakers of the Oceanic language Äiwoo choose between two ways of structuring sentences: actor voice and undergoer voice. They conducted a study comparing 80 examples of each voice type and analyzed all instances of actor voice in their data. Their findings reveal that Äiwoo's voice choice factors are similar to those in other languages from the western Austronesian region. However, the undergoer voice is used more often, hinting it might become the standard way to express actions involving a direct object. The actor voice is mainly used when the object is less specific, resembling patterns in other Oceanic languages. This study, published in a journal paper, suggests Äiwoo might be shifting towards a different sentence structure system.
  </article>
  <article id="keywords-article-ET4Y87P2" class="keywords-article">
    <h1>Keywords</h1>
    Voice Choice, Actor Voice, Undergoer Voice, Symmetrical Voice, Transitivity Shift, Oceanic Language
  </article>
  <article id="abstract-article-ET4Y87P2" class="abstract-article">
    <h1>Scientific abstract</h1>
    This paper examines the factors that influence the choice between actor voice and undergoer voice in the Oceanic language Äiwoo from two perspectives: a quantitative study comparing 80 actor-voice clauses with 80 undergoer-voice clauses and a qualitative study looking at all occurrences of actor voice in the available data. The results show, on the one hand, that the factors influencing voice choice in Äiwoo largely overlap with those described for symmetrical voice languages in the western Austronesian region. On the other hand, the usage patterns of the actor voice also show affinities with the transitivity alternations found in canonical Oceanic languages: the undergoer voice is by far the most frequent in discourse, suggesting that it may be on its way to being reanalyzed as the default transitive construction, and the predominant context for the use of the actor voice is with an undergoer argument that is low in referentiality, similar to the contexts that favor “semi-transitive” constructions in many Oceanic languages. The Äiwoo data thus point to a possible path of reanalysis from a symmetrical voice system to an Oceanic-type system of transitivity
alternations.
  </article>
  <article id="taxonomy-article-ET4Y87P2" class="taxonomy-article">
    <h1>Archive</h1>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}en/archive/?key=3DCRN523">University of Inland Norway</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}en/archive/?key=WYNZA47F">Faculty of Education</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}en/archive/?key=T9U6ILTU">Department of Scandinavian Languages and Literature</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}en/archive/?key=SPIZ6VGU">2025</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}en/archive/?key=VCRRT4T8">May</a></li>
    </ul>
  </article>
</div>
