---
title: 'Thinking like a mountain: encountering nature as an antidote to Humankind’s
  Hostility towards the earth'
type: pub
encoding: UTF-8

---
<h1>Publikasjon</h1>
<article id="csl-bib-container-5T399637" class="csl-bib-container">
  <div class="csl-bib-body"> <div class="csl-entry">Gansmo Jakobsen, T. (2019). Thinking like a mountain: encountering nature as an antidote to Humankind’s Hostility towards the earth. <i>Journal of Critical Realism</i>, <i>18</i>(1), 45–55. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/14767430.2018.1550595">https://doi.org/10.1080/14767430.2018.1550595</a></div> </div>
  <div class="csl-bib-buttons">
    <a href="#taxonomy-article-5T399637" alt="archive" class="csl-bib-button">Arkiv</a>
    <a href="https://app.cristin.no/results/show.jsf?id=1643278" alt="Cristin" class="csl-bib-button">Cristin</a>
    <a href="http://zotero.org/groups/5881554/items/5T399637" alt="Zotero" class="csl-bib-button">Zotero</a>
    <a href="#keywords-article-5T399637" alt="keywords" class="csl-bib-button">Emneord</a>
    <a href="#about-article-5T399637" alt="about_pub" class="csl-bib-button">Om</a>
    <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/14767430.2018.1550595" alt="Unpaywall" class="csl-bib-button">Unpaywall</a>
    <a href="https://doi.org/10.1080/14767430.2018.1550595" alt="EZproxy" class="csl-bib-button">EZproxy</a>
  </div>
  <div id="csl-bib-meta-container-5T399637"></div>
</article>
<div id="csl-bib-meta-5T399637" class="csl-bib-meta">
  <article id="about-article-5T399637" class="about_pub-article">
    <h1>Om</h1>
    Gansmo Jakobsen utforskar korleis det å fordjupe seg i ulike kulturelle miljø kan hjelpe oss med å tenkje nytt om våre synspunkt og redusere fiendtlegheit mot andre. Denne studien føreslår at ved å oppleve "forskjell," kan vi betre forstå oss sjølve og andre, og fremje gjensidig respekt. Jakobsen føreslår å anvende denne ideen på vårt forhold til naturen, og argumenterer for at møte med naturens mangfald kan hjelpe oss å lære av den og redusere vår tendens til å utnytte miljøet. Ved å sjå naturen frå nye perspektiv, kan vi utvikle eit meir respektfullt og gjensidig forhold til jorda. Denne tilnærminga, inspirert av Bhaskar sin filosofi om metaRealitet, kan vere eit verdifullt verktøy i å takle miljøproblem og fremje berekraftig livsstil.
  </article>
  <article id="keywords-article-5T399637" class="keywords-article">
    <h1>Emneord</h1>
    Møte med forskjell, Natur, Menneskeleg utnytting, Gjensidighet, Bhaskar sin filosofi
  </article>
  <article id="abstract-article-5T399637" class="abstract-article">
    <h1>Samandrag</h1>
    Patric Baert suggests that ‘encountering difference’, as we might when immersing ourselves in new cultural settings, allows us to redescribe and reconceptualise ourselves, our culture and our surroundings. By so doing, individuals can learn to see themselves, their own culture and their own presuppositions from a different point of view (perspective). They can then contrast their interpretations with alternative forms of life; and this is a requirement both for learning about themselves and coming to understand others. There is evidence that such learning can reduce animosity towards others and encourage reciprocity. In this paper, I discuss the possibility that such an approach could also be useful if applied to the more-than-human world, as an antidote to nature’s exploitation by humans. I therefore argue that we need to ‘encounter difference’ with nature’s forms, which will allow us to learn from it. The meaning and implications of such ‘encountering difference’ will be developed in relation to Bhaskar’s philosophy of metaReality.
  </article>
  <article id="taxonomy-article-5T399637" class="taxonomy-article">
    <h1>Arkiv</h1>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=3DCRN523">Universitetet i Innlandet</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=WYNZA47F">Fakultet for lærerutdanning og pedagogikk</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=L8MA547R">Institutt for pedagogikk – Lillehammer</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=X2Y974UN">2018</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=YSHM3JJV">Desember</a></li>
    </ul>
  </article>
</div>
