---
title: Voice choice in Äiwoo and the symmetrical voice-to-transitivity shift
type: pub
encoding: UTF-8

---
<h1>Publikasjon</h1>
<article id="csl-bib-container-ET4Y87P2" class="csl-bib-container">
  <div class="csl-bib-body"> <div class="csl-entry">Holmen, S. S., &#38; Næss, Å. (2025). Voice choice in Äiwoo and the symmetrical voice-to-transitivity shift. <i>Oceanic Linguistics</i>, <i>64</i>(1), 1–45. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1353/ol.2025.a960252">https://doi.org/10.1353/ol.2025.a960252</a></div> </div>
  <div class="csl-bib-buttons">
    <a href="#taxonomy-article-ET4Y87P2" alt="archive" class="csl-bib-button">Arkiv</a>
    <a href="https://app.cristin.no/results/show.jsf?id=2377514" alt="Cristin" class="csl-bib-button">Cristin</a>
    <a href="http://zotero.org/groups/5881554/items/ET4Y87P2" alt="Zotero" class="csl-bib-button">Zotero</a>
    <a href="#keywords-article-ET4Y87P2" alt="keywords" class="csl-bib-button">Emneord</a>
    <a href="#about-article-ET4Y87P2" alt="about_pub" class="csl-bib-button">Om</a>
    <a href="https://doi.org/10.1353/ol.2025.a960252" alt="Unpaywall" class="csl-bib-button">Unpaywall</a>
    <a href="https://doi.org/10.1353/ol.2025.a960252" alt="EZproxy" class="csl-bib-button">EZproxy</a>
  </div>
  <div id="csl-bib-meta-container-ET4Y87P2"></div>
</article>
<div id="csl-bib-meta-ET4Y87P2" class="csl-bib-meta">
  <article id="about-article-ET4Y87P2" class="about_pub-article">
    <h1>Om</h1>
    Holmen og Næss undersøker korleis talarar av det oseaniske språket Äiwoo vel mellom to måtar å strukturere setningar på: aktørstemme og undergoerstemme. Dei gjennomførte ein studie der dei samanlikna 80 døme av kvar stemmetype og analyserte alle tilfelle av aktørstemme i datamaterialet sitt. Funna deira viser at faktorane for val av stemme i Äiwoo liknar på dei i andre språk frå den vestlege austronesiske regionen. Likevel blir undergoerstemme brukt oftare, noko som tyder på at det kan bli den vanlege måten å uttrykke handlingar som involverer eit direkte objekt. Aktørstemme blir hovudsakleg brukt når objektet er mindre spesifikt, og dette liknar mønster i andre oseaniske språk. Denne studien, publisert i ein tidsskriftartikkel, antyder at Äiwoo kan vere i ferd med å skifte mot eit anna system for setningsstruktur.
  </article>
  <article id="keywords-article-ET4Y87P2" class="keywords-article">
    <h1>Emneord</h1>
    Val av stemme, Aktørstemme, Undergoerstemme, Oseanisk språk, Transitivitetsskifte, Symmetrisk stemme
  </article>
  <article id="abstract-article-ET4Y87P2" class="abstract-article">
    <h1>Samandrag</h1>
    This paper examines the factors that influence the choice between actor voice and undergoer voice in the Oceanic language Äiwoo from two perspectives: a quantitative study comparing 80 actor-voice clauses with 80 undergoer-voice clauses and a qualitative study looking at all occurrences of actor voice in the available data. The results show, on the one hand, that the factors influencing voice choice in Äiwoo largely overlap with those described for symmetrical voice languages in the western Austronesian region. On the other hand, the usage patterns of the actor voice also show affinities with the transitivity alternations found in canonical Oceanic languages: the undergoer voice is by far the most frequent in discourse, suggesting that it may be on its way to being reanalyzed as the default transitive construction, and the predominant context for the use of the actor voice is with an undergoer argument that is low in referentiality, similar to the contexts that favor “semi-transitive” constructions in many Oceanic languages. The Äiwoo data thus point to a possible path of reanalysis from a symmetrical voice system to an Oceanic-type system of transitivity
alternations.
  </article>
  <article id="taxonomy-article-ET4Y87P2" class="taxonomy-article">
    <h1>Arkiv</h1>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=3DCRN523">Universitetet i Innlandet</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=WYNZA47F">Fakultet for lærerutdanning og pedagogikk</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=T9U6ILTU">Institutt for nordisk språk og litteratur</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=SPIZ6VGU">2025</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=VCRRT4T8">Mai</a></li>
    </ul>
  </article>
</div>
