---
title: 'Excessive Testimony: When Less Is More'
type: pub
encoding: UTF-8

---
<h1>Publikasjon</h1>
<article id="csl-bib-container-VT2K9J52" class="csl-bib-container">
  <div class="csl-bib-body"> <div class="csl-entry">Dellsén, F. U. (2022). Excessive Testimony: When Less Is More. <i>Philosophy and Phenomenological Research</i>. <a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/phpr.12928">https://doi.org/10.1111/phpr.12928</a></div> </div>
  <div class="csl-bib-buttons">
    <a href="#taxonomy-article-VT2K9J52" alt="archive" class="csl-bib-button">Arkiv</a>
    <a href="https://app.cristin.no/results/show.jsf?id=2053853" alt="Cristin" class="csl-bib-button">Cristin</a>
    <a href="http://zotero.org/groups/5881554/items/VT2K9J52" alt="Zotero" class="csl-bib-button">Zotero</a>
    <a href="#keywords-article-VT2K9J52" alt="keywords" class="csl-bib-button">Emneord</a>
    <a href="#about-article-VT2K9J52" alt="about_pub" class="csl-bib-button">Om</a>
    <a href="https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdfdirect/10.1111/phpr.12928" alt="Unpaywall" class="csl-bib-button">Unpaywall</a>
    <a href="https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdfdirect/10.1111/phpr.12928" alt="EZproxy" class="csl-bib-button">EZproxy</a>
  </div>
  <div id="csl-bib-meta-container-VT2K9J52"></div>
</article>
<div id="csl-bib-meta-VT2K9J52" class="csl-bib-meta">
  <article id="about-article-VT2K9J52" class="about_pub-article">
    <h1>Om</h1>
    Dellsén sin studie utforskar korleis styrken av vitnesbyrd, eller påliteligheten av det folk seier, kan variere på to måtar. For det første er vitnesbyrd sterkare når fleire personar seier det same. For det andre er det sterkare når individ uttrykkjer sine tru med større overtyding. Studien finn at mindre vitnesbyrd kan av og til vere meir overtydande, og utfordrar dermed ideen om at meir vitnesbyrd alltid betyr betre justifikasjon. Denne innsikten er viktig fordi den antyder at kvaliteten og tilliten til vitnesbyrd er viktigare enn mengda. Dette kan påverke korleis vi vurderer informasjon i kvardagslege situasjonar, som å ta avgjerder basert på råd eller nyheiter.
  </article>
  <article id="keywords-article-VT2K9J52" class="keywords-article">
    <h1>Emneord</h1>
    Testimonial styrke, Vitnesbyrd, Justifikasjon, Overtyding, Ikkje-reduksjonisme
  </article>
  <article id="abstract-article-VT2K9J52" class="abstract-article">
    <h1>Samandrag</h1>
    This paper identifies two distinct dimensions of what might be called testimonial strength: first, in the case of testimony from more than one speaker, testimony can be said to be stronger to the extent that a greater proportion of the speakers give identical testimony; second, in both single-speaker and multi-speaker testimony, testimony can be said to the stronger to the extent that each speaker expresses greater conviction in the relevant proposition. These two notions of testimonial strength have received scant attention in the philosophical literature so far, presumably because it has been thought that whatever lessons we learn from thinking about testimony as a binary phenomenon will apply mutatis mutandis to varying strengths of testimony. This paper shows that this will not work for either of the two aforementioned dimensions of testimonial strength, roughly because less testimony can provide more justification in a way that can only be explained by appealing to the (non-binary) strength of the testimony itself. The paper also argues that this result undermines some influential versions of non-reductionism about testimonial justification.
  </article>
  <article id="taxonomy-article-VT2K9J52" class="taxonomy-article">
    <h1>Arkiv</h1>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=3DCRN523">Universitetet i Innlandet</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=DU8Q9LN9">Handelshøgskolen Innlandet - Fakultet for økonomi og samfunnsvitenskap</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=ITYAG68H">Institutt for rettsvitenskap, filosofi og internasjonale studier</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=B7XWRJNE">2022</a></li>
      <li><a href="{{< params subfolder >}}nn/archive/?key=3AAQ4ESI">September</a></li>
    </ul>
  </article>
</div>
